Dear all,

The time and venue for the endsem exam for HS 305 are as follows: 5.30 pm to 8.30 pm, LA 202 and LC 002. I will soon send you a separate email with details regarding the seating arrangement, so that you know where you need to be on the day of the exam. Come with plenty of time in hand, so that you can take the exam in a relaxed mood. That way, you will perform to the best of your ability.

The rubric for the end-sem exam is as follows:

You will have to answer any TWO long questions from Part A (15 x 2  = 30 marks) and any TWO short questions from Part B (10 x 2 = 20 marks). You should choose your questions from Part A and Part B in such a way that you write on at least one text each by William Blake, Munshi Premchand, and Henrik Ibsen. For instance, if you choose to write on Premchand and Ibsen in Part A, you must write on at least one text by Blake in Part B. Do not write plot summaries; instead, substantiate your arguments with close references to the texts (quotations are welcome but not necessary, since this is not an open-book test). Please write neatly and legibly, and clearly indicate which question you are answering. For questions in section B, you will be given important passages from the works we have studied in class, and you will be asked to identify the texts from which the passages are taken, comment on the contexts in which the passages are found, identify the speakers (if any), and comment on their significance. Please stick to the rubric.

Also note the following, in particular:

1. You should correctly enter whatever details are asked of you in the opening page of the answer script and any additional sheets that you might take (name, roll no., or both), so that your paper is identifiable as your paper. Failure to do so will result in a zero, since we will not spend time trying to determine the authorship of anonymous papers from a bunch of around 200!

2. If you entirely omit one of the three authors we studied (Blake, Premchand, and Ibsen) from your set of responses, one of your two short responses will be given a zero.

3. Go through the films we saw in class, since you will be tested on them. When you write on the film adaptations, do not conflate them with their source texts, since there are important differences between the films and the adaptations.

In case you have any questions, please respond to this Moodle post, and I will get back to you asap. Send your questions early, since I may not be able to respond on 9-10 November.

Good luck with your preparations for your endsem exams!

Best wishes,

Suddhaseel